Al senior political Alice Maran bashara
joins us here in the studio and Marwan
it seems as though there is perhaps some
confusion over what might happen next in
Rafa because uh the aerial bombardment
the attacks on the territory have
continued and actually they've been
intensifying really worrying reports
about more than 100,000 people fleeing
people who've already been displaced
from other parts of Gaza and now it
seems maybe a little uh confusion or
contentiousness over where Washington
stand
on this and uh whether or not they have
done anything to restrain Israel's
actions in
Rafa but you know it's sort of
symptomatic of what what we've seen the
past seven months the United States
expresses uh its hesitation its
reluctance its cautiousness say about a
land Invasion nanyo says we will do it
after several weeks they they do it and
the Americans following Israel's
footsteps over the last few weeks the
United States been saying no invasion of
Rafa now they're saying no full invasion
of Rafa complete invasion of Rafa so Nan
says well we'll do a limited invasion of
Rafa which probably will take us to a
full invasion of Rafa because to my mind
whether there are talks in in in Cairo
Doha or elsewhere to my mind netan and
his generals and his Fanatics of our
ministers are determined to go into Rafa
or much of Rafa or to attack Hamas and
hamas's tunnels and hamas's Fighters and
activists in Rafa even if that means
heavy human cost I think they expect the
United States eventually to follow on
their
footsteps and this idea that uh
Washington has pressured Israel
in some way to hold off on uh a sort of
ground Invasion I mean does that does
that make sense to you when really in
explicit terms Washington has sort of
said well even they didn't like the
options that were presented to them by
Israel and then they sort of seem to say
that uh even if an invasion were to go
ahead they need to come up with a plan
for civilians so in that sense it's just
it seems Israel may not have been given
the green light but we know that they
will be supported with everything they
need certainly militarily for if this is
to go ahead so this is a thing it's a
bit uh you know clever clever as it were
on the part of the United
States um saying that well we are
withholding some of the ammunitions that
they were supposed to send to Israel but
since the aid was approved by Congress
multiple shipments have already left to
Israel so in fact Nano says we will
fight with our I don't know what nails
and so on so forth It's all such hug
because we all know that the American
weapons have already left to Israel and
Israel will have all the weapon it needs
until the end of times from the United
States and from US Stock piles in Israel
and so on so forth so I think there's no
worry about that but but the but the
Biden Administration continuously gives
the impression that it's reluctant and
that it is not 100% on board because I
think it's also careful that one day it
will bear the brunt of the Judgment both
of history and perhaps the international
court of justice or the international
criminal court I should say because they
are complicit in the war and Gaza so if
they can take a bit of a distance while
at the same time ensuring that Israel
does what Israel wants you know why not
just a brief one more one there is a
very important vote today at the UN
General Assembly tell us about that well
we already have some 40 countries
recognize uh the state of Palestine it's
good that there's some mention that it
is going to be on the basis of 1967
borders meaning that territory I think
clearly just on the basis of what you
were saying earlier on Rafa and we what
we're saying later on about Palestine
something incredibly important is
happening in the world today Israel is
getting a
beating around the world while Palestine
is getting a beating in the Middle East
so why while Israel is really cracking
down hard War crime Slaughter and so on
so forth in Palestine while Palestine is
losing as the Homeland but Palestine the
cause whether it's at the United Nations
or Western capitals or university
campuses is certainly getting ground
we'll certainly have coverage of that
significant vote the UN General Assembly
a bit later on Maran for now thank you
and
actually make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz zero